.TH pioneers 6 "Februari 24, 2013" "pioneers"
.SH NAME
pioneers \- network implementation of Settlers of Catan

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pioneers
[
.BI \-\-server " server"
] [
.BI \-\-port " port"
] [
.BI \-\-name " name"
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B pioneers
command.
.PP
.B Pioneers
is an implementation of the popular, award-winning "Settlers of Catan"
board game for the GNOME desktop environment.  It uses a client/server
model for networked play of between two and eight players.  You will
need to connect to a machine running either \fBpioneers-server-gtk\fP
or \fBpioneers-server-console\fP to play.  An AI client, \fBpioneersai\fP,
is also available.

.SH OPTIONS
Pioneers accepts the standard GTK+/GNOME commandline options, 
and the following options:
.TP
.BI "\-s, \-\-server" " server"
Hostname of the server
.TP
.BI "\-p, \-\-port" " port"
Portname of the server
.TP
.BI "\-n, \-\-name" " name"
Use this name for the player instead of the name in the settings file
.TP
.BI "\-v, \-\-spectator"
Connect as spectator instead of as a player
.TP
.BI "\-m, \-\-metaserver" " metaserver"
Connect to this metaserver instead of the metaserver in the settings file
.TP
.BI "\-\-debug"
Turn on debugging mode
.TP
.BI "\-\-version"
Show the version and quit

.PP
When the server and port are both provided, the client automatically quits when 
the connection is broken.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The default settings can be influenced with the
following environment variable:
.TP 
.B PIONEERS_METASERVER
The hostname of the metaserver.
If it is not set, the default metaserver will be used.

.SH FILES
.B /usr/share/games/pioneers/themes/*
.RS
Themes for display of the map. Each theme goes in a separate subdirectory.
.RE
.B /usr/share/pixmaps/pioneers/*
.RS
Icons
.RE
.B /usr/share/pixmaps/pioneers.png
.RS
Main icon
.RE
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/pioneers
.RS
Saved settings
.RE
.B $XDG_DATA_HOME/pioneers/themes
.RS
Personal themes
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Steve Langasek <vorlon@debian.org>,
and updated by Roland Clobus <rclobus@rclobus.nl>.
Pioneers was written by Dave Cole <dave@dccs.com.au>, Andy Heroff
<aheroff@mediaone.net>, and Roman Hodek <roman@hodek.net>, with
contributions from many other developers on the Internet; see the
AUTHORS file in the pioneers distribution for a complete list of
contributing authors.

.SH SEE ALSO
More detailed user documentation is available in the online help.
.PP
.BR pioneers-server-gtk(6) ", " pioneers-server-console(6) ", "
.B pioneersai(6)
