.TH pioneers-server-console 6 "February 24, 2013" "pioneers"
.SH NAME
pioneers-server-console \- command-line game server for Pioneers

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pioneers-server-console
[ OPTIONS ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B pioneers-server-console
command.
.PP
.B Pioneers
is an implementation of the popular, award-winning "Settlers of Catan"
board game for the GNOME desktop environment.  It uses a client/server
model for networked play of between two and eight players.  This program
provides a console-only server that \fBpioneers\fP clients can connect
to.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS Application options
.BI "\-g,\-\-game\-title" " game title"
Load the ruleset specified by \fIgame title\fP. The title can be found in
the *.game files. You need quotes for titles with spaces.
.TP
.BI "\-\-file" "filename"
Load the ruleset in the file \fIfilename\fP.
.TP
.BI "\-p,\-\-port" " port"
Use port \fIport\fP for player connections.
.TP
.BI "\-P,\-\-players" " num"
Start a game for \fInum\fP total players (including computer players).
.TP
.BI "\-v,\-\-points" " points"
Specify the number of "victory points" required to win the game.
.TP
.BI "\-R,\-\-seven\-rule" [0|1|2]
"Sevens rule": Specify gameplay behavior when a player rolls a seven.  A
value of \fI0\fP (the default) means that rolling a seven always moves
the robber.  A value of \fI1\fP requires the player to re-roll if a
seven is rolled on the first two turns.  A value of \fI2\fP means the
player always re-rolls.
.TP
.BI "\-T,\-\-terrain" [0|1]
Choose a terrain type: \fI0\fP for the default, or \fI1\fP for random
terrain.
.TP
.BI "\-c,\-\-computer\-players" " num"
Start up \fInum\fP computer players.
.TP
.BI "\-\-version"
Show version information.

.SS Metaserver options
.TP
.BI "\-r,\-\-register"
Register with a metaserver.  The metaserver to use can be overridden
with the
.B \-m
option. Default metaserver: pioneers.debian.net
.TP
.BI "\-m,\-\-metaserver" " metaserver"
Register this server with the metaserver at the specified address. 
.TP
.BI "\-n, \-\-hostname" " hostname"
Use this hostname instead of the hostname reported by 
.BR hostname(1) .

.SS Miscellaneous options
.BI "\-x,\-\-auto\-quit"
Automatically exit after a player has won.
.TP
.BI "\-k,\-\-empty\-timeout" " secs"
Automatically stop the server if no one has connected after \fIsecs\fP
seconds.
.TP
.BI "\-t,\-\-tournament" " mins"
Tournament mode: add AI players after \fImins\fP minutes.
.TP
.BI "\-a,\-\-admin\-port" " port"
Listen for administrative commands on port \fIport\fP.
.TP
.BI "\-s,\-\-admin\-wait"
Don't start the game immediately; wait for a command on the admin port
.RB ( \-a )
instead.
.TP
.BI "\-\-fixed\-seating\-order"
Give players numbers according to the order they enter the game.
.TP
.BI "\-\-debug"
Enable debug messages.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The default settings of the server can be influenced with the
following three environment variables:
.TP 
.B PIONEERS_METASERVER
The hostname of the metaserver when no metaserver is specified on the
command-line.
.TP
.B PIONEERS_SERVER_NAME
The hostname of the server.
If it is not set, the hostname is determined by 
.BR hostname(1) .
.TP 
.B PIONEERS_DIR
The path to the game definition files.
If it is not set, the default installation path will be used.

.SH FILES
.B /usr/share/games/pioneers/*.game
and
.B $XDG_DATA_HOME/pioneers/*.game
.RS
Game definitions
.RE
.B /usr/share/games/pioneers/computer_names
.RS 
A list of names the computer player can use
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Steve Langasek <vorlon@debian.org>, 
and updated by Roland Clobus <rclobus@rclobus.nl>.
Pioneers was written by Dave Cole <dave@dccs.com.au>, Andy Heroff
<aheroff@mediaone.net>, and Roman Hodek <roman@hodek.net>, with
contributions from many other developers on the Internet; see the
AUTHORS file in the pioneers distribution for a complete list of
contributing authors.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pioneers(6) ", " pioneers-server-gtk(6) ", " pioneersai(6) ", " hostname(1)
