.TH pioneers-metaserver 6 "February 24, 2013" "pioneers"
.SH NAME
pioneers-metaserver \- metaserver for Pioneers

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pioneers-metaserver
.RI [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pioneers
is an implementation of the popular, award-winning "Settlers of Catan"
board game.  It uses a client/server model for networked play. This program
provides a piece of network infrastructure that helps match pioneers clients to
pioneers servers. Casual players of pioneers probably do not need to run this
program.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-?, \-\-help
Print a short help text and exit.

.TP
.B \-d, \-\-daemon
Run in daemon mode.

.TP
.BI "\-P, \-\-pidfile" " pidfile"
.RI "Write the pid to " pidfile " (implies -d)"

.TP
.BI "\-r, \-\-redirect" " location"
.RI "Redirect to another metaserver running at " location "."

.TP
.BI "\-s, \-\-servername" " hostname"
.RI "Use " hostname " as hostname when creating servers."

.TP
.BI "\-p, \-\-port\-range" " from" \- "to"
.RI "Use ports in the range " from "-" to " (inclusive) to start servers."
When this range is not specified, the metaserver will not be able to create
new games.

.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable debug messages.

.TP
.B \-\-syslog-debug
Duplicate the messages of the syslog to the console.

.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version information.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The default settings of the metaserver can be influenced with the
following three environment variables:
.TP 
.B PIONEERS_METASERVER
The hostname the metaserver will use when creating new games. This should
be a hostname that can be resolved by all clients that will connect.
.TP 
.B PIONEERS_SERVER_CONSOLE
.RB "The path (including the filename) to " pioneers-server-console "."
If it contains only a filename and no path or if it is not set, the PATH
variable in the environment is used to locate the program.
.TP
.B PIONEERS_DIR
The path to the game definition files.
If it is not set, the default installation path will be used.

.SH FILES
.B /usr/share/games/pioneers/*.game
.RS
Game definitions
.RE

.SH SIGNALS
.B SIGINT
.RS
Shutdown the metaserver gracefully (can also be used to check for memory leaks)
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jeff Breidenbach <jab@debian.org>,
and updated by Roland Clobus <rclobus@rclobus.nl> and
Bas Wijnen <shevek@fmf.nl>.
Pioneers was written by Dave Cole <dave@dccs.com.au>, Andy Heroff
<aheroff@mediaone.net>, and Roman Hodek <roman@hodek.net>, with
contributions from many other developers on the Internet; see the
AUTHORS file in the pioneers distribution or the help->about dialog in one of
the graphical programs for a complete list of contributing authors.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pioneers(6) ", " pioneers-server-gtk(6) ", " pioneers-server-console(6)
