.TH pioneersai 6 "May 20, 2014" "pioneers"
.SH NAME
pioneersai \- Computer player for Pioneers

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pioneersai
[
.BI \-s " server"
] [
.BI \-p " port"
] 
.BI \-n " name"
.if n .ti +5n
[
.BI \-a " algorithm"
] [
.BI \-t " milliseconds"
] [
.BI \-c 
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B pioneersai
command.
.PP
.B Pioneers
is an emulation of the Settlers of Catan board game which can
be played over the internet. This is a computer player
implementation that can take part in Pioneers games.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.BI "\-s,\-\-server" " server"
Connect to a pioneers game running on \fIserver\fP.
.TP
.BI "\-p,\-\-port" " port"
Connect to a pioneers game running on \fIport\fP.
.TP
.BI "\-n,\-\-name" " name"
Specify \fIname\fP of the computer player.
.TP
.BI "\-a,\-\-algorithm" " algorithm"
Specify \fIalgorithm\fP of the computer player.
The algorithms for active partipants in a game are "greedy" and "genetic".
The default algorithm is "greedy".
Other allowed values are: lobbybot, logbot.
.TP
.BI "\-\-chromosome\-file" " filename"
The filename for the file that contains the chromosome for the "genetic"
algorithm. When not specified, the default chromosome is used.
.TP
.BI "\-t,\-\-time" " milliseconds"
Time to wait between turns, in \fImilliseconds\fP. Default is 1000.
.TP
.BI "\-c,\-\-chat\-free"
Do not chat with other players.
.TP
.BI \-\-debug
Enable debug messages.
.TP
.BI \-\-version
Show version information.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jeff Breidenbach <jab@debian.org>,
and updated by Roland Clobus <rclobus@rclobus.nl>.
Pioneers was written by Dave Cole <dave@dccs.com.au>, Andy Heroff
<aheroff@mediaone.net>, and Roman Hodek <roman@hodek.net>, with
contributions from many other developers on the Internet; see the
AUTHORS file in the pioneers distribution for a complete list of
contributing authors.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pioneers(6) ", " pioneers-server-gtk(6) ", " pioneers-server-console(6)
